Polishing GQL overview (#1848)
bigcommerce/dev-docs: docs/api-docs/storefront/graphql/graphql-api-overview.mdx

"Early access" is not a measure of the API's quality, stability, or readiness for use in a production capacity on transactional storefronts. This is a production API which is fully supported & tested by BigCommerce, and you should be comfortable using it if your use case is satisfied by the current functionality.
</Callout>

BigCommerce's GraphQL Storefront API makes it possible to query storefront data from within a [Stencil](/stencil-docs/getting-started/about-stencil) theme or remote site. This means information previously only available on the back-end using [Stencil's template logic](/stencil-docs/reference-docs/global-objects-and-properties) can now be accessed with front-end JavaScript. For example, with the GraphQL Storefront API, it is possible to do the following:
BigCommerce's GraphQL Storefront API makes it possible to query storefront data from within a [Stencil](/stencil-docs/getting-started/about-stencil) theme, or from external websites or applications in a headless shopper experience. This GraphQL API serves as a flexible interface for building shopper experiences. For example, with the GraphQL Storefront API, it is possible to do the following:

> * Access product options, variations, and custom fields for any product from any page.

Author: This verbiage was more relevant when this use case was completely unsolved, but now the tribal knowledge has spread (and the API has a lot more functionality) so it's not the most exciting callout anymore.

  Stores using BigCommerce's legacy Blueprint theme framework do not support the GraphQL API and Playground.
</Callout>

## See it in action

To see the GraphQL Storefront API in action, checkout the [Bootstrap + Vanilla JS GraphQL Storefront API Example](https://bigcommerce.github.io/storefront-api-examples/html-bootstrap-vanillajs/) hosted on GitHub. This example shows how a static HTML site can be used to render dynamic product information using the GraphQL Storefront API.
To see a simple example of the GraphQL Storefront API in action, checkout the [Bootstrap + Vanilla JS GraphQL Storefront API Example](https://bigcommerce.github.io/storefront-api-examples/html-bootstrap-vanillajs/) hosted on GitHub. This example shows how a static HTML site can be used to render dynamic product information using the GraphQL Storefront API.

Open the link and click submit with the sample data in the form. To see the example page with your store's data, [create a GraphQL Storefront API token](/docs/storefront-auth/tokens#create-a-token) against your store and paste the token into the example form. Be sure to create a token valid for this origin: `https://bigcommerce.github.io`.

> For a full list of examples, see the [GraphQL Storefront API Examples repo](https://github.com/bigcommerce/storefront-api-examples).

Author: Removing this as there aren't any other examples there right now.

To explore the storefront GraphQL schema, checkout the **Docs** and **Schema** tabs on the right.

![GraphQL Playground Docs](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bigcommerce/dev-docs/master/assets/images/graphql-playground-docs.png "GraphQL Playground Docs")

You may also explore the graph visually using our [GraphQL Explorer](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/graphql-explorer).

## Authentication

GraphQL Storefront API requests are authenticated with JWT bearer tokens sent using the HTTP `Authorization` header.

```shell filename="Example Authorization header using cURL" showLineNumbers copy
curl 'https://{bigcommerce_storefront_domain}.com/graphql'\
  # ...
  -H 'authorization: Bearer {token}'\
  # ...
```

### Creating a token

Use the [Create a GraphQL Storefront API token](/docs/storefront-auth/tokens#create-a-token) REST endpoint to request JWT bearer tokens that authenticate requests to the GraphQL Storefront API.

> This type of token is the most appropriate for use directly within web browsers. If you're creating a token for an application that will make server-to-server requests to the Storefront API, you might be better served by a [Customer Impersonation Token](#customer-impersonation-tokens), although this special token is not necessary if you only wish to query information from an anonymous shopper's perspective.

Author: I think this edit changes the meaning in a way that differs from my intent, so I'm leaving this alone for now.

</Tabs>

<Callout type="info">

>   * The `allowed_cors_origins` array currently accepts up to 2 origins. You will need multiple tokens if you have more origins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * The `allowed_cors_origins` array currently accepts up to two origins. You will need multiple tokens if you have more origins.
```

Unlike typical GraphQL Storefront API tokens, Customer impersonation tokens _are_ sensitive, and should therefore **never** be exposed publicly, for example, to JavaScript or HTML. These tokens should not be used for front-end requests. They should be treated with the same care as other application secrets, just as you might treat an OAuth access token for BigCommerce's REST APIs. Requests using these tokens originating from a web browser will be rejected.

Consider this sample request using a Customer Impersonation token to run a request in the context of customer ID `123`.

```shell filename="Example request: Query as customer 123" showLineNumbers copy
curl 'https://store.com/graphql' -H 'Authorization: Bearer TOKEN_GOES_HERE' -H 'X-Bc-Customer-Id: 123' --data-binary '{"query":"query CustomerInformation {\n  customer {\n    firstName\n    lastName\n    email\n  }\n}"}'
```

> <Callout type="info">

Author: Moving this callout down to the Customer Impersonation token section, as this is the more sensitive token.

  * If your token were to become compromised and you wish to severe the Storefront API connection for your token, you can use the [Revoke a token](/docs/storefront-auth/tokens#revoke-a-token) endpoint. Only use this in emergency situations, and do not revoke tokens unnecessarily. Instead, use a shorter expiration and allow them to expire naturally.
</Callout>

### Customer login

If you're using the GraphQL Storefront API from a browser, for example, on top of your Stencil storefront, you can use the Customer Login mutation to sign in to a customer account with an email address and a password. This will set a session cookie in the browser which will authenticate the customer account on future requests:

```graphql filename="Example query: login mutation" showLineNumbers copy
mutation Login($email: String!, $pass: String!) {
  login(email: $email, password: $pass) {
    result
    customer {
      entityId
      firstName
      lastName
      email
    }
  }
}
```

> This mutation may also be useful for server-to-server applications using a Customer Impersonation Token, as you can use this interface to validate a customer email address + password, for example to power a login form. When the credentials are correct and the mutation returns successfully, you can take the resulting customer ID and store it in a session to use in the `X-Bc-Customer-Id` header in future requests for that shopper.

Reviewer 2: I guess it doesn't really matter, but should we start using lowercase header keys?
```suggestion
This mutation may also be useful for server-to-server applications using a Customer Impersonation Token, as you can use this interface to validate a customer email address + password, for example to power a login form. When the credentials are correct and the mutation returns successfully, you can take the resulting customer ID and store it in a session to use in the `x-bc-customer-id` header in future requests for that shopper.
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

Customer impersonation token-authenticated requests made to the GraphQL Storefront API may query store information from the perspective of ANY customer by specifying the customer ID using the `x-bc-customer-id` header sent with the GraphQL `POST` request. Customer-specific data such as product pricing & availability, customer account details, and other parameters will change to reflect the specified customer's data.

> Unlike typical GraphQL Storefront API tokens, Customer impersonation tokens _are_ sensitive, and should therefore **never** be exposed publicly, for example, to JavaScript or HTML. These tokens should not be used for front-end requests. They should be treated with the same care as other application secrets, just as you might treat an OAuth access token for BigCommerce's REST APIs. Requests using these tokens originating from a web browser will be rejected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike typical GraphQL Storefront API tokens, Customer impersonation tokens _are_ sensitive and should, therefore **never** be exposed publicly, for example, to JavaScript or HTML. You should not use these tokens for front-end requests. They should be treated with the same care as other application secrets, just as you might treat an OAuth access token for BigCommerce's REST APIs. Requests using these tokens originating from a web browser will be rejected.
```

> It is not necessary to generate a new token for each customer ID. You may use a single token at any given time for your application, and specify the customer ID on a per-request basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is optional to generate a new token for each customer ID. You may use a single token at any given time for your application and specify the customer ID per request.
```

Author: "optional" implies that you might want to do it sometimes, which is different from my intent. My intent is to discourage doing this, because we've noticed folks are thinking it's how the tokens are meant to work when it's actually an antipattern. I'll adjust.

Reviewer: ok, thanks

Consider this sample request using a Customer Impersonation token to run a request in the context of customer ID `123`.

```shell filename="Example request: Query as customer 123" showLineNumbers copy
curl 'https://store.com/graphql' -H 'authorization: Bearer TOKEN_GOES_HERE' -H 'x-bc-customer-id: 123' --data-binary '{"query":"query CustomerInformation {\n  customer {\n    firstName\n    lastName\n    email\n  }\n}"}'
```

<Callout type="info">

>   * If your token were to become compromised and you wish to severe the Storefront API connection for your token, you can use the [Revoke a token](/docs/storefront-auth/tokens#revoke-a-token) endpoint. Only use this in emergency situations, and do not revoke tokens unnecessarily. Instead, use a shorter expiration and allow them to expire naturally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * If your token were to become compromised and you wish to sever the Storefront API connection for your token, you can use the [Revoke a token](/docs/storefront-auth/tokens#revoke-a-token) endpoint. Only use this in emergencies, and do not revoke tokens unnecessarily. Instead, use a shorter expiration and allow them to expire naturally.
```

</Callout>

### Customer login

> If you're using the GraphQL Storefront API from a browser, for example, on top of your Stencil storefront, you can use the Customer Login mutation to sign in to a customer account with an email address and a password. This will set a session cookie in the browser which will authenticate the customer account on future requests:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using the GraphQL Storefront API from a browser, for example, on top of your Stencil storefront, you can use the Customer Login mutation to sign in to a customer account with an email address and a password. This will set a session cookie in the browser, which will authenticate the customer account on future requests:
```

```graphql filename="Example query: login mutation" showLineNumbers copy
mutation Login($email: String!, $pass: String!) {
  login(email: $email, password: $pass) {
    result
    customer {
      entityId
      firstName
      lastName
      email
    }
  }
}
```

> This mutation may also be useful for server-to-server applications using a Customer Impersonation Token, as you can use this interface to validate a customer email address + password, for example to power a login form. When the credentials are correct and the mutation returns successfully, you can take the resulting customer ID and store it in a session to use in the `x-bc-customer-id` header in future requests for that shopper.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This mutation is also useful for server-to-server applications using a Customer Impersonation Token. For example, this interface can validate a customer's email address + password to power a login form. When the credentials are correct, and the mutation returns successfully, you can take the resulting customer ID and store it in a session to use in the `x-bc-customer-id` header in future requests for that shopper.
```

As a security best practice, you should inject the email address & password using GraphQL query variables. This prevents the password from being exposed in the query itself. In the [GraphQL Playground](/graphql-playground), you can set the variables for the request.

![GraphQL Playground Query Variables](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bigcommerce/dev-docs/master/assets/images/graphql-overview-01.png "GraphQL Playground Query Variables")

You can use a logout mutation to sign out of a customer account:

```graphql filename="Example query: logout mutation" showLineNumbers copy
mutation Logout {
  logout {
    result
  }
}
```

> This will clear the session cookie which has the effect of logging out the shopper, and future GraphQL requests will be from the perspective of an anonymous shopper.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will clear the session cookie, which has the effect of logging out the shopper, and future GraphQL requests will be from the perspective of an anonymous shopper.
```

## Querying within a BigCommerce storefront

> GraphQL Storefront API calls can be made directly from within a Stencil theme or from a script in the store's [Script Manager](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Using-Script-Manager).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can make GraphQL Storefront API calls directly from within a Stencil theme or from a script in the store's [Script Manager](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Using-Script-Manager).
```

    }`
  })
})

> .then(r => r.json())
> .then(j => console.log(j)) // will log JSON result to browser console

Reviewer 2: We probably shouldn't use shortnames
```suggestion
.then(res => res.json())
.then(data => console.log(data)) // will log JSON result to browser console
```

}
```

> The complexity limit error is usually caused by queries with a large quantity of deeply nested objects, for example, this query which requests 4 different product collections together with their prices, variants, options, and option values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The complexity limit error is usually caused by queries with a large quantity of deeply nested objects; for example, this query requests four different product collections together with their prices, variants, options, and option values.
```

}
```

> The complexity of this query is easily reduced by changing the number of products queried in each collection from `first:50` to `first:10`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can easily reduce the complexity of this query by changing the number of products queried in each collection from `first:50` to `first:10`:
```

To reduce complexity, reduce the number of objects requested. For example, do the following:
* Limit collections to a smaller page size (for example, `first:10` instead of `first:50`).

> * Reduce the number of items in nested collections, which have an exponential effect on complexity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Reduce the number of items in nested collections, exponentially affecting complexity.
```

For example, if your store hash is `abc123` and your channel ID is `456`, the channel's permanent URL is `https://store-abc123-456.mybigcommerce.com/graphql`. 

> In order for a channel's permanent URL to respond to requests you must first [create a site](/docs/rest-management/sites#create-a-site) for the channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a channel's permanent URL to respond to requests, you must first [create a site](/docs/rest-management/sites#create-a-site) for the channel.
```

<Callout type="info">
  When you create a GraphQL Storefront API token, include the channel ID of the channel on which you wish to use the token. Otherwise, the server will reject your requests. See this article's section on [Creating a token](#creating-a-token).
</Callout>

### I want to run requests from a front-end application or browser. I only show anonymous information, or I do not support signing in as a customer

> Use a normal GraphQL Storefront API token. You can use an anonymous `fetch` or `XHR` mode that does not send cookies along with the request. When creating your token, be sure to specify the origin from which your requests will be run in order specify this as an allowed origin for [CORS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use a normal GraphQL Storefront API token. You can use an anonymous `fetch` or `XHR` mode that does not send cookies along with the request. When creating your token, specify the origin from which your requests will be run in order to specify this as an allowed origin for [CORS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS).
```
